---
title: 2025 Hobby Goals
layout: post
category: Hobby
---

How do I see my hobby progressing in the year ahead?

<!--more-->

There are some probable releases this year that may grab my focus:

- [Gitmob Grots](gmg) for *Age of Sigmar*. These are confirmed for early this year, and will be hard to resist. I was a big fan of [Rippa's Snarlfangs]({% post_url 2020/2020-02-16-rippas-snarlfangs %}), the *Warhammer Underworlds: Beastgrave* warband that heralded this release way back in 2020. I'm less of a fan of the new models being included in the Gloomspite Gitz faction, as I feel that there's a bit of a thematic gulf between these sun-worshipping *Mad Max* grots and the troglodytic Bad Moon lovers, but if it's done well then I'll be on board with it. 
- *Warcry* 3rd edition. This is just a hopeful prediction but it seems likely as it will have been 3 years since the last edition and the game has suffered a bit of a release drought of late. I've played the heck out of *Warcry* over the last 6 years so if a new version (and its accompanying big box) arrives I will be very excited!
- [Weaver Courts](wc), a new faction for [*Conquest*](cq), might finally be released this year. My friend Bair asked me to write about the models for [Goonhammer](gh) if/when they arrive, and I eagerly agreed -- I've been hyped about these extraterrestrial wood elves who fleshmeld with wild creatures ever since I first learned about them. I hope I like them, regardless of whether or not they match up with the way they look in my imagination. 

[gmg]: https://www.warhammer-community.com/en-gb/articles/vab9rzvn/world-championship-preview-the-gitmob-prepare-to-race-across-the-mortal-realms/
[wc]: https://www.para-bellum.com/the-weaver-courts/
[cq]: https://www.para-bellum.com/getting-started/
[gh]: https://www.goonhammer.com/

As for my goals, mostly I hope to just follow my butterfly. I'm happiest and most productive when I'm just flitting between different things without feeling like I have a responsibility to paint anything in particular. That aside, these are the targets I think I can commit to:

- [ ] Grow my *Kings of War* Ogre army to over 2000 points. 

Most *KoW* events seem to be held at or above 2000 points, and it would be nice to be able to attend one. My collection currently sits just below 1500 points. I was planning to reach 2000 points in 2024, as I was participating in a local escalation group, but Ogres were one of the many casualties of my hobby output dropping dramatically in the back half of the year. 

- [ ] Start a 2nd *Kings of War* army so I can do demo games. 
 
The question is: *which one?* At present I'm leaning towards Halflings, but Forces of the Abyss are cute too... 

- [ ] Grow my *Warmaster* Wood Elf army to over 2000 points.

It's about time I played some full-size games of this silly old system. It won't take long to paint all the units I need to reach my target, as the models are very small. I just need to bite the bullet and place an order with a 3D printing place.

- [ ] Scratch-build a fantasy tower out of a Pringles tube.

This is just one of those 'bucket list' king of things I gotta do before I die. 

- [ ] Upload at least one hobby blog post each month of the year.

I really fell off the blogging wagon in 2024, and I'm keen not to repeat that. A post per month seems like an achievable target.

Beyond those well-defined goals, I have other aspirations: 

- Continue building up my Cities of Sigmar collection.
- Continue building up my Gloomspite Gitz collection.

I'd also like to play a lot this year, so why not set myself some targets (I'll update the Count column as the year progresses):

|           Game           | Target | Count |
| :----------------------: | :----: | :---: |
|      Age of Sigmar       |   12   |   0   |
| Age of Sigmar: Spearhead |   6    |   0   |
|       Kings of War       |   6    |   0   |
|  Warhammer Underworlds   |   6    |   1   |
|        Magewinds         |   6    |   0   |

Finally, I'd like to continue improving *Magewinds*. I'll figure out what I can achieve on it this year soon, and get cracking.